---
layout: post
title: "Hive"
author: "Yashique Chalil"
categories: embedded
tags: [embedded,programming]
image: hive-1.jpg
---

## An embedded framework for quick prototyping of Programmable Digital Music Instruments (DMIs)

The Hive is a Programmable Digital Music Instrument. The device runs on a Linux-based ARM processor, allowing users to upload and compile a compatible audio processing script in C++ or pure data. It features an interactive control surface that can be programmed and mapped to either parameter controls for audio effects, note inputs for synths or both. This project entails developing audio effects patches using MAX/MSP's extension RNBO, which allows users to export the designed patch as VSTs or C++ scripts.

## The Software

### MAX MSP

Adding overtones to the input signal creates a saturation effect, which can distort the signal at high levels. In MAX MSP, overtones can be added by using periodic function objects like atan~ or simple harmonic functions like cos.

Furthermore, I introduced a second function that shifts the entire frequency of the input signal by a variable amount, with the amplitude of the shifted signal oscillating slightly. This combination of constantly morphing frequencies creates an interesting distortion effect. Building this effect on MAX MSP was an exciting process, as I could test and run the patch simultaneously while designing it, allowing me to listen to the variations and tweak on the go.

<iframe src="https://drive.google.com/file/d/1EOjEYW5pZQf8TS5lg04YJ3eKIKxTJTem/preview" width="640" height="480" allow="autoplay">
	
</iframe>